EC2 provides resizable compute capacity and reduces time to boot a new server. They allow you to quickly scale up and down. 

You pay as you use and pay less when you use more. 

1 On demand - Allows you to pay a fixed rate with no commitment. Low cost and flexibility, good for develpping applications and unpredicatble services that cant be interrupted.

2 Reserved - provides you with capactiy reservation, contract 1 or 3 year term. Steady state applications with upfront pricing. 
    Standard reserve- 75% off on demand instances, The more you pay upfront the longer the contract, but greater the discount.
    Converable Reserved Instance - 54% off on demand as long as the exchange results in the creation of RI with greater or equal value
    Schedulued - Launch within a time window that allow syou to match reservation capacity

3 Spot - amazons excess capacity, good for apps that have flexible start and end time. Very low compute prices for user needing urgent amounts of additional capacity. Lets you take advatnage of unused EC@ capcaity in AWS. Can be up to 90% discount. Can be used for CI/CD, containerized workloads, web servers, high performance computing.

Decide on max spot price, kind of like the stock market.  Good for big data analytics, image and media rendering. 

Understand the spot cycle - https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/images/spot_lifecycle.png

Spot fleets are a collection of spot instances and on demand isntances. 

4 Deidcated Hosts - Useful for regulatory reqs and licensing that dont support mulitenant deployments. Can be purchased on demand per hour



EC2 Instance Types
KNOW THESE for Professional Exam: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/amazon-ec2-instance-types/
EC2 Mnemonic - FIGHT DR MC PXZ AU (Fight dr mcpixy AU)




EBS - Elastic Block Store is persistent storiage that is automatically replicated within an AZ for durability. 
    General Purpose SSD - 1-gb - 16 tb, gp2, 16000 iops, most workloads
    Provisioned IOPS SSD - High speed - io1, 4gb-16tn, 64000 iops, databases
    Throughput Optimised HDD - High THroughut - st1, 500gb - 16tb, 500 iops, big data 
    Cold hard disk - sc1, 500 gb -16 tb 250 iops, file servers
    Magnetic - standard, 1gb -1 tb, IA data

Need to know this for Associate Exam : https://acloudyjourney.com/ebs-volumes-snapshots/

EC2 instances and EBS volumes are in the same AZ.


EBS - AMI selected based on region OS, laucnh permissions, EBS volumes, wont lose data. Root volume deleted upon termination.
Instance store backed Ec2 instances cannot be stopped, only terminated because they are ephemeral. No data is saves


ENI - Elastic network interface or virtual network card. One primary Ipv4 address, one elastic IP address, one public Ipv4 address, mac address. Use network and sec applicance in your VPC and can create dual homed connections.
EN Enhanved networking  to provide high performance network, with more bandwidth. Increases network performance
ENA Enhanced virtual function for 10 GBPS -100 GBPS instance types, typically used for older isntances. 
EFA Fabric can attach to Ec2 instance, less latency and more consistent. IF HPC or ML is mentioned in a question choose EFA




Encyrpting Snapshots - create a snapshot of the unencrypted root devices, create a copy again and selecct the encrypt option, create ami for encrypted snapshot, use AMI to launch encrypted instance.



EC2 Hibernate - preserves in memory RAM on persistent storage (EBS)
Its much faster to boot up because you do not need to lreoad the opearting system
Instance RAM must be less than 150 GB
Available for windows, amazon, ubunut
Cant hiberante for more than 60 days.

Cloudwatch is used for monitoring performance and can do so for AWS as well as your applications that run in the cloud. Will monitor events every 5 monutes by default, but can do 1 minute intervals by turning on detailed monitoring. Can create cloudwatch alarms to trigger notifications. Not the same as cloud trail which conducts auditing, not performance. CPU, Network, disc can be tracked through alarms, logs, and events. 

