S3 is simple storage service is a safe place to store your files or objects. Files can be from 0-5 tb. They store files in buckets or folders. S3 names are universal. Buckets create web addresses which is why they must be unqiue.

HTTP 200 code will show if your bucket upload was successful

Key is the name of the object
Value is the data
Version ID is version of that file
Metadata is data about what you're storing


If you upload a file in S3 you can read it immedaitely. 
If you upload version 2 of a file, you may get version 1 or 2, this is eventual consistency. This only applies to existing files.
Guaranteed 99.9999% durability.

S3 has tiered storage, life cycle management, versioning, ecnryption, MFA delete, ACL's, and bucket policies

Storage Classes - NEED TO KNOW
    S3 standard - is highly available and durable acorss multiple AZs. Can sustain the loss of 2 facilities.
    S3 IA infrequent access for files that require less access across AZ's and you are charged a retrivel fee.
    S3 One Zone IA - Infrequent access that doesnt require multiple AZs
    S3 Intelligent Tiering - Saves money by automatially moving data to the most cost-effective tier. Uses machine learning 
    S3 Glacier - Secure for data archiving, retrieval time configurable from minutes to hours. 
    S3 Glacier Deep Archive - AWS S3s lowest cost storage, retrieval of 12 hours. 

https://jayendrapatil.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/S3-Storage-Classes-Performance.png

You are chraged for S3 by storage, requesuts, management pricing, data transfer pricing, cross region replication, and transfer acceleration.

Pricing Tiers:

S3 Standard - First 50 TB/month = .23 cents/gig
              Next 450 TB/month = .22 cents/gig
              Over 500 TB/month = .21

S3 IA - First 50 TB/month = .23 cents/gig
              Next 450 TB/month = .22 cents/gig
              Over 500 TB/month = .21
              All Storage /month = .01 cents/gig

Glacier - All storage/month = .004/gig

Glacier Deep Archive - All storage/month = .00099/gig

It makes more sense to use S3 Intelligent Tiering since it automatically moves old files to glacier. 

All buckets when created are private. Buckets can be configured to create access logs.

Encryption in transit is achieved by SSL/TLS. 
Encryption at rest is acheived by S3 managed keys SSE-S3. AWS Key MGMT Service SSE-KMS. Client Side or Server Side encryption SSE-C. 

Versioning is a great backup tool and cant be turned off once enabled. It comes with MFA delete capability and lifecycle rules. 

Lifecycle rules are where you can set versions to be moved to different storage tiers after x number of days. 


Object Lock is to store a WORM model. It can help you prevent objects from being deleted for a fixed amount of time or indefinitely. 
    Governance mode locks files down ot special users
    Compliance mode cant be overwritten or deleted for a fixed amount of time
    Legal Hold doesnt have associated retention period, but does lock deletion

Glacier Vault Lock easily deploys and enfoces compliance controls for different policies.


Performance

A prefix in s3 is the folder directory between the bucket name and object name: the folder1/subfolder is th prefix.

mybucketname/folder1/subdfoler1/myfile.jpg

You would do this because you can get better performance by using prefixes. you can do up to 22000 requests per second if you use four prefixes out of your directory. its basically a short cut

To increase performance you can also do multipart uplaods for files over 100mb. This is required for over 5gb

S# byte range can be used to speed up downloads and to download partial bits of the download. 


Select and Glacier Select

